$Id: INSTALL,v 1.2 2005/04/27 14:29:51 xmldoc Exp $

INSTALL file for the DocBook Slides distribution

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Case #1: Installation using a package management system
----------------------------------------------------------------------
If you have installed the Slides distribution using "apt-get",
"yum", "urpmi", or some similar package-management front-end,
then, as part of the package installation, the Slides DTDs, Relax
NG schemas, and XSL stylesheets have already been automatically
installed in the appropriate locations for your system, and your
XML catalog environment was updated to use those locations.

However, note that this release also includes a locatingrules.xml
file to simplify authoring of Slides documents in Emacs/nXML.
There are not yet any cross-distro standards for handling
installation of locating-rules files. So, for specific
instructions about how to make use of the locatingrules.xml file
with your distro, see the distro-specific documentation installed
along with the package. For example, on a Debian system, check the
/usr/share/doc/docbook-slides/README.Debian.gz file.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Case #2: Installing manually
----------------------------------------------------------------------
If you have downloaded a docbook-slides zip, tar.gz, or tar.bz2
file, use the following steps to install it.

  1. Move the zip, tar.gz, or tar.bz2 file to the directory where
     you'd like to install it (not to a temporary directory).

  2. unzip or untar/uncompress the file

     That will create a docbook-slides-$VERSION directory (where
     $VERSION is the version number for the release).

The remaining steps are all OPTIONAL. They are intended to
automatically update your user environment with XML Catalog
information about the Slides distribution. You are NOT REQUIRED
to complete these remaining steps. However, if you do not, and you
want to use XML catalogs with Slides, you will need to manually
update your XML catalog environment

  3. Change to the docbook-slides-$VERSION directory and execute
     the install.sh script:

       ./install.sh

     That will launch an interactive installer, which will emit a
     series of prompts for you to respond to. After the process is
     complete, the installer will emit a message with a command
     you need to run in order to source your environment for use
     with Slides.

  4. To test that he installation has updated your environment
     correctly, execute the test.sh script:

       ./test.sh

     That will test your XML catalog environment, using both the
     xmlcatalog application and the Apache XML Commons Resolver.

     NOTE: The test.sh file is not created until the install.sh
           file is run for the first time. So you need to run the
           install.sh script before running the test.sh script.

  5. (UNINSTALLING) If/when you want to uninstall the release,
     execute the uninstall.sh script.

       ./uninstall.sh

     That will revert all changes made by the install.sh script.

     NOTE: The uninstall.sh file is not created until the install.sh
           file is run for the first time. So you need to run the
           install.sh script before running the uninstall.sh script.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
Note to packagers
----------------------------------------------------------------------
The install.sh, .CatalogManager.properties.example, and .urilist
files should not be packaged. They are useful only to users who
are installing Slides manually.

The catalog, catalog.xml, and locatingrules.xml file should be
packaged, and your package installation should automatically
update your system configuration to make use of them.

If your package doesn't automatically update your system Emacs
configuration to make use of the locatingrules.xml file, the
distro-specific documentation for your package should include
instructions explaining to users how to make use of the
locatingrules.xml file -- and/or the package installation should
emit a message with similar instructions during installation.
